=========================
Oscar 0.3.7 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-07-03

* Extend number of years in bankcard expiry field


=========================
Oscar 0.3.6 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-04-08

* Fix line-handling bug in order dashboard.


=========================
Oscar 0.3.5 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-09-28

A couple of minor adjustments for Tangent projects

* Add handling of custom redirect after adding to basket
* Add recursive URL decoration


=========================
Oscar 0.3.4 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-09-24

* Rework price lookups in offer calculations (backport of functionality from 0.4)
* Add additional block to profile template

Diff: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/compare/0.3.3...0.3.4


=========================
Oscar 0.3.3 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-08-24

* Minor bug fixes around category editing and order history.


=========================
Oscar 0.3.2 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-08-13

* Bug fix for basket calculations.
* Bug fix for absolute discount benefit calculations.


=========================
Oscar 0.3.1 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-08-08

* Now including the translation files.


=========================
Oscar 0.3.0 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-08-08

* i18n support added - Oscar now ships with ``.po`` files for seven languages.
  Translation files are welcome.
* Category management added to dashboard
* Some improvements to how group/variant products are handled
* Improved installation process using :file:`Makefile`


Migrations
~~~~~~~~~~

There are 3 new migrations in the catalogue app.  If you have a local version,
you will need to run::

    ./manage.py schemamigration catalogue --auto

to pick up the changes in Oscar's catalogue app.

Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A new setting ``OSCAR_MAIN_TEMPLATE_DIR`` has been introduced
as the template structure has been altered.  This requires your
``TEMPLATE_DIRS`` setting to be altered to include this folder, e.g.::

    from oscar import OSCAR_MAIN_TEMPLATE_DIR
    TEMPLATE_DIRS = (
        location('templates'),
        OSCAR_MAIN_TEMPLATE_DIR
    )

If you want to extend one of Oscar's templates, then use::

    # base.html
    {% extends 'oscar/base.html' %}

instead of::

    # base.html
    {% extends 'templates/base.html' %}
