==========================
Oscar 0.4.11 release notes
==========================

:release: 2013-08-08

Add extra blocks to order dashboard template.


==========================
Oscar 0.4.10 release notes
==========================

:release: 2013-07-03

Extend range of bankcard expiry month field.


=========================
Oscar 0.4.9 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-04-17

Make ``AbstractStockRecord`` abstract (`#645`)

.. _`#645`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/645


=========================
Oscar 0.4.8 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-04-08

Fix bug with order dashboard line editing (`#622`_)

.. _`#622`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/622


=========================
Oscar 0.4.7 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-03-20

Fix bug with order dashboard searching (`#587`_)

.. _`#587`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/587


=========================
Oscar 0.4.6 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-03-05

Fix dependencies in ``setup.py``


=========================
Oscar 0.4.5 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-01-25


Extend ``get_class`` to support loading from non-Oscar packages


=========================
Oscar 0.4.4 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-01-16

Correct django-haystack in setup.py


=========================
Oscar 0.4.3 release notes
=========================

:release: 2013-01-16

Pin django-haystack version as backwards-incompatiable changes are happening


=========================
Oscar 0.4.2 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-12-14

Nano-release to fix logout redirect bug


=========================
Oscar 0.4.1 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-12-06

Nano-release to bump dependency versions.


=========================
Oscar 0.4.0 release notes
=========================

:release: 2012-10-19

Quite a big release this one.  Several new features have been added since the
0.3 release series:

* Better support for digital products.  Additional fields added to product class
  model.
* HTML editing within the dashboard
* A new email dashboard
* Major refactor of the offers module and test suite  
* Product stock alerts: customers can request an alert when when a product comes
  back into stock
* Customer notifications: an API and inbox for sending users notifications

Upgrading
~~~~~~~~~

Four apps have new migrations.  If you subclass these apps in your project, you
will need to create a new schema migration for each to pick up the upstream
changes.

* Basket: 
  
  - A ``price_excl_tax`` has been added to ``basket.Line``.  This is
    useful for applications that use dynamic pricing where both the price with and
    without tax needs to be stored. 

* Catalogue:

  - A ``requires_shipping`` field has been added to ``catalogue.ProductClass``
    to facilitate better support for digital products (that don't require
    shipping).

  - The ``code`` field of ``catalogue.Option`` now has a unique index.

* Customer: 

  - New models for stock alerts and notifications
  - The ``email_subject_template`` field from
    ``customer.CommunicationEventType`` is now nullable.

* Order:

  - An ``offer_name`` field has been added to ``order.OrderDiscount`` so retain
    audit information on discounts after offers are deleted.

Please ask on the mailing list if any other problems are encountered.

