.. spelling::

    Transifex

=========================
Oscar 0.6.1 release notes
=========================

This is Oscar 0.6.1.  It fixes one potentially serious data loss issue and a
few minor bugs.

Possible data loss from deleted users
-------------------------------------

Before this release, the foreign key from the
:class:`~oscar.apps.order.abstract_models.Order` model to the ``User`` model
did not specify an ``on_delete`` behaviour.  The default is for deletes to
cascade to related objects, even if the field is nullable.  Hence, deleting a
user would also delete any orders they had placed.

As of 0.6.1, the foreign keys to user, shipping address and billing address on
the ``Order`` model specify ``on_delete=SET_NULL`` to avoid orders being
deleted accidentally.

See `Django's docs`_ for more info on ``on_delete`` options.

Missing translations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The 0.6 release failed to include several translations from Transifex due to a
problem in the way we updated translation files before release.  This
release rectifies that and includes the latest translation files.

Known issues
============

* Django 1.4 only: The changes in `#1127`_ mean you explicitly need to register
  a call to ``migrate_alerts_to_users`` when the ``post_save`` signal is
  emitted for a ``User`` model.

Bug fixes
=========

The following bugs were fixed:

* `#1109`_ - Workaround for a bug in Bootstrap regarding the collapsing of the
  navigation bar.

* `#1121`_ - Added a confirmation view to removing products from wish lists
  because one can't POST to it in all cases.

* `#1127`_ required that the ``migrate_alerts_to_user`` function is now
  explicitly called in Oscar's base User class. It previously was wired up as
  a ``post_save`` signal receiver on the User model, which does not work in
  Django 1.5+.

* `#1128`_ - Calls to ``Source.debit`` without an ``amount`` argument were
  failing as ``balance`` was being called as a method instead of a property.

* `#1130`_ - Variant products were not fetching the product class instance
  correctly within ``is_shipping_required``.

* `#1132`_ and `#1149`_ - Rich text attributes were not supported. Should be
  displayed correctly now. Also introduced hooks for adding support for e.g.
  ``file`` and ``image`` types.

* `#1133`_ - The order detail page for anonymous checkouts failed to render if
  reviews were disabled.

* `#1134`_ - Fixed a bug caused where Unicode characters in child products'
  titles were incorrectly handled.

* `#1138`_ - Adjust the
  :class:`~oscar.apps.shipping.models.OrderAndItemCharges` shipping method to
  not count lines that don't require shipping.

* `#1146`_ - Various templates were adjusted to gracefully handle deleted
  products.

.. _`#1109`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1109
.. _`#1121`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1121
.. _`#1127`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1127
.. _`#1128`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1128
.. _`#1130`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1130
.. _`#1132`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1132
.. _`#1133`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1133
.. _`#1134`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1134
.. _`#1138`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1138
.. _`#1146`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1146
.. _`#1149`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1149
.. _`Django's docs`: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/models/fields/#django.db.models.ForeignKey.on_delete
