=======================
Oscar 1.0 release notes
=======================

:release: 2014-11-07

Welcome to Oscar 1.0!  It's been 7 months and some 800 commits since 0.7 and
lots of work has gone into 1.0. This release makes quite a few changes,
especially around supporting Django 1.7 with its app refactor and new migrations
support.

Also, `as you might have seen`_, the repositories for Oscar and most of its
extensions have moved to a new `Github organisation`_. This marks a change for
Oscar from being a Tangent-sponsored project to a more community-driven one,
similar to Django itself. The core team is growing too to accommodate new
contributors from outside Tangent. This is an exciting change and we're hopeful
that Oscar can continue to grow and prosper.  To mark this departure, this
release has been renamed from 0.8 (under which we released three beta versions)
to 1.0.

.. _`as you might have seen`: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/django-oscar/organisation/django-oscar/6H7ByzRAkRY/6055EDottBAJ
.. _`Github organisation`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar

Table of contents:

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


.. _compatibility_of_1.0:

Compatibility
-------------

This release adds support for Django 1.7. Per our policy of always supporting
two versions of Django, support for Django 1.5 has been dropped.

This release also adds full Python 3.3 and 3.4 support.

If you're using ``pysolr`` for search, you'll need to upgrade to version 3.2 or
later.


.. _new_in_1.0:

What's new in Oscar 1.0?
------------------------

Explicit differentiation of child, parent and stand-alone products
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In some edge cases, it was difficult to determine the 'type' of a product. For
example, whether a product is a parent (or "group") product without children or
stand-alone product (which never has children).  To make that distinction
easier, a ``structure`` field has been introduced on the ``AbstractProduct``
class. In that process, naming for the three different product structures
has been altered to be:

*stand-alone product*
    A regular product (like a book)

*parent product*
    A product that represents a set of *child* products (eg a T-shirt, where the set is
    the various color and size permutations). These were previously referred to
    as "group" products.

*child product*
    All child products have a parent product. They're a specific version of the
    parent. Previously known as product variant.

Some properties and method names have also been updated to the new naming. The
old ones will throw a deprecation warning.

Better handling of child products in product dashboard
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Together with the changes above, the dashboard experience for child products
has been improved. The difference between a parent product and a stand-alone
product is hidden from the user; a user can now add and remove child products
on any suitable product. When the first child product is added, a stand-alone
product becomes a parent product; and vice versa.

In the front-end, the old name of "product variants" has been kept.

Customisation just got easier!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Oscar's views are now dynamically imported. This means that they can be
  overridden like most other classes in Oscar; overriding the related
  Application instance is not necessary any more which simplifies the process of
  replacing or customising a view.

* A new management command, ``oscar_fork_app``, has been introduced to make it
  easy to fork an Oscar app in order to override one of its classes.

The documentation around :doc:`/topics/customisation` has been given an
overhaul to incorporate the changes.

Django 1.7 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Oscar 1.0 comes with support for Django 1.7 out of the box. The app refactor
and the new migration framework are both great improvements to Django. Oscar
now ships with sets of migrations both for South and the new native
migrations framework.

Unfortunately, the changes in Django required a few breaking changes when
upgrading Oscar both for users staying on Django 1.6 and for users upgrading to
Django 1.7 at the same time. These are detailed in the section for
backwards-incompatible changes.

The changes in Django 1.7 meant quite a bit of effort to support both versions
of Django, so it's very probable that Django 1.6 support will be removed in
the next release of Oscar. Django 1.7 has notable improvements, so with that
in mind, we can only recommend upgrading now.

Billing addresses explicitly passed around checkout
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``build_submission`` method used in checkout now has a ``billing_address``
key and the signatures for the ``submit`` and ``handle_order_placement`` methods
have been extended to include it as a keyword argument. While this change should
be backwards compatible, it's worth being aware of the method signature changes
in case it affects your checkout implementation.

Dashboard for weight-based shipping methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a new dashboard for weight-based shipping methods. It isn't enabled by
default as weight-based shipping methods are themselves not enabled by default.
To add it to the dashboard menu, include this snippet in your
``OSCAR_DASHBOARD_NAVIGATION`` setting:

.. code-block:: python

    OSCAR_DASHBOARD_NAVIGATION = [
        ...
        {
            'label': _('Shipping charges'),
            'url_name': 'dashboard:shipping-method-list',
        },
        ...
    ]

You'll also need to modify your shipping repository class to return weight-based
shipping methods.

US demo site
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To help developers building sites for the US, a new example Oscar site has been
included in the repo. This customises core Oscar to treat all prices as
excluding tax and then calculate and apply taxes once the shipping address is
known.

Faceting for category browsing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If Oscar is running with a Solr-powered search backend, the category browsing
now shows facets (e.g. filter by price range, or product type).  This is
implemented via a new ``SearchHandler`` interface, which will eventually replace
the tight coupling between Haystack and Oscar. It therefore paves the way for
better support for other search engines.

Reworked shipping app
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Several parts of the shipping app have been altered. The most important change
is a change to the API of shipping methods to avoid a potential thread safety
issue.  Any existing Oscar sites with custom shipping methods will need to
adjust them to confirm to the new API. The new API and the other changes are
detailed below.

See the
:ref:`backwards incompatible changes <incompatible_shipping_changes_in_1.0>`
for the shipping app and the
:doc:`guide to configuring shipping </howto/how_to_configure_shipping>`
for more information.

Basket additions clean-up
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The forms and views around adding things to your basket have been vigorously
reworked. This cleans up some very old code there and ensures variant products
are handled in a consistent way.

The changes do require changing the constructor signature of the
``AddToBasketForm`` - the details are documented in the
:ref:`basket_app_changes`.

Checkout improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The checkout process now skips payment if the order total is zero (e.g. when
ordering free products or using a voucher). As part of that, checkout views
now evaluate *pre-conditions* (as before) and newly introduced
*skip conditions*. This should make customising the checkout flow easier.

Out with the old, in with the new
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Lots of methods deprecated in the 0.6 release have now been removed.
Specifically, the partner "wrapper" functionality is now gone. All price and
availability logic now needs to be handled with strategies.


.. _minor_changes_in_1.0:

Minor changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``OSCAR_CURRENCY_LOCALE`` setting has been removed. The locale is now
  automatically determined from the current language. This ensures prices are
  always shown in the correct format when switching languages.

* The login and registration view now redirects staff users to the dashboard
  after logging in. It also employs flash messages to welcome returning and
  newly registered users.

* The basket middleware now assigns a ``basket_hash`` attribute to the
  ``request`` instance. This provides a hook for basket caching.

* The tracking pixel now also reports the Oscar version in use. This was
  forgotten when adding tracking of the Python and Django version in 0.7.
  Total information collected now is the versions of Django, Python and Oscar.

* The tracking pixel is now served by a server run by the new Oscar
  organisation, rather than by Tangent.

* The ``OSCAR_SLUG_FUNCTION`` now accepts both string notation and a callable.

* The default templates now allow the order status to be changed on the
  dashboard order detail page.

* The forms for the order dashboard views are now loaded dynamically so they
  can be overridden.

* An ``OSCAR_DELETE_IMAGE_FILES`` setting has been introduced which makes deleting
  image files and thumbnails after deleting a model with an ``ImageField``
  optional. It usually is desired behaviour, but can slow down an app when
  using a remote storage.

* Oscar now ships with a ``oscar_populate_countries`` management command to
  populate the country databases. It replaces the ``countries.json`` fixture.
  The command relies on the ``pycountry`` library being installed.

* It is now possible to use product attributes to add a relation to arbitrary
  model instances. There was some (presumably broken) support for it before,
  but you should now be able to use product attributes of type ``entity`` as
  expected. There's currently no frontend or dashboard support for it, as there
  is no good default behaviour.

* Payment extensions can now raise a ``UserCancelled`` payment exception to
  differentiate between the intended user action and any other errors.

* Oscar has a new dependency, django-tables2_. It's a handy library that helps
  when displaying tabular data, allowing sorting, etc. It also makes it easier
  to adapt e.g. the product list view in the dashboard to additional fields.

* ``jquery-ui-datepicker`` has been replaced in the dashboard by
  bootstrap-datetimepicker_. We still ship with ``jquery-ui-datepicker`` and
  ``JQuery UI`` as it's in use in the frontend.

* ... and dozens of bugs fixed!

.. _django-tables2: https://django-tables2.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
.. _bootstrap-datetimepicker: http://www.malot.fr/bootstrap-datetimepicker/


.. _incompatible_changes_in_1.0:

Backwards incompatible changes in 1.0
-------------------------------------

.. _product_structure_changes_in_1.0:

Product structure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Generally, backwards compatibility has been preserved. Be aware of the following
points though:

* You now need to explicitly set product structure when creating a product;
  the default is a stand-alone product.

* The ``related_name`` for child products was altered from ``variants`` to
  ``children``. A ``variants`` property has been provided (and will throw a
  deprecation warning), but if you used the old related name in a query lookup
  (e.g. ``products.filter(variants__title='foo')``, you will have to change it
  to ``children``.

* Template blocks and CSS classes have been renamed.

The following methods and properties have been deprecated:

* ``Product.is_parent`` - Use ``is_group`` instead.
* ``Product.is_variant`` - Use ``is_child`` instead.
* ``Product.is_top_level`` - Test for ``is_standalone`` and/or ``is_parent`` instead.
* ``Strategy.fetch_for_group`` - Use ``fetch_for_parent`` instead.
* ``Strategy.group_[pricing|availability]_policy`` - Use
  ``parent_[pricing|availability]_policy`` instead.
* ``Strategy.select_variant_stockrecords`` - Use
  ``select_children_stockrecords`` instead.

Furthermore, CSS classes and template blocks have been updated. Please follow
the following renaming pattern:

* ``variant-product`` becomes ``child-product``
* ``product_variants`` becomes ``child_products``
* ``variants`` becomes ``children``
* ``variant`` becomes ``child``

Product editing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The dashboard improvements for child products meant slight changes to both
``ProductCreateUpdateView`` and ``ProductForm``. Notably ``ProductForm`` now
gets a ``parent`` kwarg. Please review your customisations for compatibility
with the updated code.

.. _incompatible_shipping_changes_in_1.0:

Shipping
~~~~~~~~

The shipping method API has been altered to avoid potential thread-safety
issues. Prior to v1.0, shipping methods had a ``set_basket`` method which
allowed a basket instance to be assigned. This was really a crutch to allow
templates to have easy access to shipping charges (as they could be read
straight off the shipping method instance). However, it was also a
design problem as shipping methods could be instantiated at compile-time
leading to a thread safety issue where multiple threads could assign a basket
to the same shipping method instance.

In Oscar 1.0, shipping methods are stateless services that have a method
:func:`~oscar.apps.shipping.methods.Base.calculate` that takes a basket and
returns a ``Price`` instance.  New :doc:`template tags </ref/templatetags/>` are
provided that allow these shipping charges to be accessed from templates.

This API change does require quite a few changes as both the shipping method
and shipping charge now need to be passed around separately:

* Shipping methods no longer have ``charge_excl_tax``,
  ``charge_incl_tax`` and ``is_tax_known`` properties.

* The :class:`~oscar.apps.order.utils.OrderCreator` class now requires the
  ``shipping_charge`` to be passed to ``place_order``.

* The signature of the :class:`~oscar.apps.checkout.calculators.OrderTotalCalculator` 
  class has changed to accept ``shipping_charge`` rather than a
  ``shipping_method`` instance.

* The signature of the
  :func:`~oscar.apps.checkout.session.CheckoutSessionMixin.get_order_totals` 
  method has changed to accept the ``shipping_charge`` rather than a
  ``shipping_method`` instance.

Another key change is in the shipping repository object. The
``get_shipping_methods`` method has been split in two to simplify the exercise
of providing new shipping methods. The best practice for Oscar 1.0 is to
override the ``methods`` attribute if the same set of shipping methods is
available to everyone:

.. code-block:: python

    from oscar.apps.shipping import repository, methods

    class Standard(methods.FixedPrice):
        code = "standard"
        name = "Standard"
        charge_excl_tax = D('10.00')


    class Express(methods.FixedPrice):
        code = "express"
        name = "Express"
        charge_excl_tax = D('20.00')

    class Repository(repository.Repository):
        methods = [Standard(), Express()]
        
or to override ``get_available_shipping_methods`` if the available shipping
methods if only available conditionally:

.. code-block:: python

    from oscar.apps.shipping import repository

    class Repository(repository.Repository):
        
        def get_available_shipping_methods(
                self, basket, shipping_addr=None, **kwargs):
            methods = [Standard()]
            if shipping_addr.country.code == 'US':
                # Express only available in the US
                methods.append(Express())
            return methods

Note that shipping address should be passed around as instances not classes.

Email address handling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In theory, the local part of an email is case-sensitive. In practice, many
users don't know about this and most email servers don't consider the
capitalisation. Because of this, Oscar now disregards capitalisation when
looking up emails (e.g. when a user logs in).
Storing behaviour is unaltered: When a user's email address is stored (e.g.
when registering or checking out), the local part is unaltered and
the host portion is lowercased.

.. warning::

   Those changes mean you might now have multiple users with email addresses
   that Oscar considers identical. Please use the new
   ``oscar_find_duplicate_emails`` management command to check your database
   and deal with any conflicts accordingly.

Django 1.7 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have any plans to upgrade to Django 1.7, more changes beyond
addressing migrations are necessary:

* You should be aware that Django 1.7 now enforces uniqueness of app labels.
  Oscar dashboard apps now ship with app configs that set their app label
  to ``{oldname}_dashboard``.

* If you have forked any Oscar apps, you must add app configs to them, and
  have them inherit from the Oscar one. See the appropriate section in
  :doc:`/topics/fork_app` for an example.

* Double-check that you address migrations as detailed below.

* Django now enforces that no calls happen to the model registry during
  app startup. This mostly means that you should avoid module-level calls to
  ``get_model``, as that only works with a fully initialised model registry.

Basket line stockrecords
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The basket line model got a reference to the stockrecord in Oscar 0.6. The
basket middleware since then updated basket lines to have stockrecords if
one was missing. If any lines are still missing a stockrecord, we'd expect them
to be from from submitted baskets or from old, abandoned baskets.
This updating of basket lines has been removed for 1.0 as it incurs additional
database queries. Oscar 1.0 now also enforces the stockrecord by making it
the ``stockrecord`` field of basket ``Line`` model no longer nullable.

There is a migration that makes the appropriate schema change but, before that
runs, you may need to clean up your ``basket_line`` table to ensure that all
existing null values are replaced or removed.

Here's a simple script you could run before upgrading which should ensure there
are no nulls in your ``basket_line`` table:

.. code-block:: python

    from oscar.apps.basket import models
    from oscar.apps.partner.strategy import Selector

    strategy = Selector().strategy()

    lines = models.Line.objects.filter(stockrecord__isnull=True):
    for line in lines:
        info = strategy.fetch_for_product(line.product)
        if line.stockrecord:
            line.stockrecord = info.stockrecord
            line.save()
        else:
            line.delete()

* The ``reload_page_response`` method of 
  :class:`~oscar.apps.dashboard.orders.views.OrderDetailView`
  has been renamed to ``reload_page``.

.. _basket_app_changes:

Basket app changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The ``basket:add`` URL now required the primary key of the "base" product to
  be included. This allows the same form to be used for both GET and POST
  requests for variant products.

- The ``ProductSelectionForm`` is no longer used and has been removed.

- The constructor of the :class:`~oscar.apps.basket.forms.AddToBasketForm` has
  been adjusted to take the basket and the purchase info tuple as parameters
  instead of the request instance (c74f57bf_ and 8ba283e8_).

.. _c74f57bf: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/commit/c74f57bf434661877f4d2d2259e7e7eb18b34951#diff-d200ac8746274e0307f512af886e1f3eR148
.. _8ba283e8: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/commit/8ba283e8c4239e4eff95da5e8097a17ecfadf5f5

Misc
~~~~

* The ``oscar_calculate_scores`` command has been `rewritten`_ to use the ORM
  instead of raw SQL. That exposed a bug in the previous calculations,
  where purchases got weighed less than any other event. When you upgrade,
  your total scores will be change. If you rely on the old behaviour,
  just extend the ``Calculator`` class and adjust the weights.

* ``Order.order_number`` now has ``unique=True`` set. If order numbers are
  not unique in your database, you need to remedy that before migrating. By
  default, Oscar creates unique order numbers.

* ``Product.score`` was just duplicating ``ProductRecord.score`` and has been
  removed. Use ``Product.stats.score`` instead.

* Oscar has child products to model tightly coupled products, and
  ``Product.recommended_products`` to model products that are loosely related
  (e.g. used for upselling). ``Product.related_products`` was a
  third option that sat somewhere in between, and which was not well supported.
  We fear it adds confusion, and in the spirit of keeping Oscar core lean,
  has been removed. If you're using it, switch to
  ``Product.recommended_products`` or just add the field back to your
  custom Product instance and ``ProductForm`` when migrating.

* The ``basket_form`` template tag code has been greatly simplified. Because of
  that, the syntax needed to change slightly.

  Before: ``{% basket_form request product as basket_form single %}``

  After: ``{% basket_form request product 'single' as basket_form %}``

* Product attribute validation has been cleaned up. As part of that, the
  trivial ``ProductAttribute.get_validator`` and the unused
  ``ProductAttribute.is_value_valid`` methods have been removed.

* The ``RangeProductFileUpload`` model has been moved from the ranges
  dashboard app to the offers app. The migrations that have been naively
  drop and re-create the model; any data is lost! This is probably not an
  issue, as the model is only used while an range upload is in progress. If
  you need to keep the data, ensure you migrate it across.

* ``oscar.core.loading.get_model`` now raises a ``LookupError`` instead of an
  ``ImportError`` if a model can't be found. That brings it more in line with
  what Django does since the app refactor.

* ``CommunicationEventType.category`` was storing a localised string, which
  breaks when switching locale. It now uses ``choices`` to map between the
  value and a localised string. Unfortunately, if you're using this feature
  and not running an English locale, you will need to migrate the existing
  data to the English values.

* Support for the ``OSCAR_OFFER_BLACKLIST_PRODUCT`` setting has been removed.
  It was only partially supported: it prevented products from being
  added to a range, but offers could be applied to the products nonetheless.
  To prevent an offer being applied to a product, use ``is_discountable`` or
  override ``get_is_discountable`` on your product instances.

* ``Category.get_ancestors`` used to return a list of ancestors and would
  default to include itself. For consistency with get_descendants and to avoid
  having to slice the results in templates, it now returns a queryset of the
  ancestors; use ``Category.get_ancestors_and_self`` for the old behaviour.

* Weight based shipping methods used to have an ``upper_charge`` field which was
  returned if no weight band matched. That doesn't work very well in practice,
  and has been removed. Instead, charges from bands are now added together to
  match the weight of the basket.

* The :class:`~oscar.apps.order.utils.OrderCreator` class no longer defaults to
  free shipping: a shipping method and charge have to be explicitly passed in.

* The ``Base`` shipping method class now lives in ``oscar.apps.shipping.methods``.

* The ``find_by_code`` method of the shipping ``Repository`` class has been
  removed as it is no longer used. 

* The parameters for
  :func:`oscar.apps.shipping.repository.Repository.get_shipping_methods`
  have been re-ordered to reflect which are the most important.

* The legacy ``ShippingMethod`` name of the interface of the shipping app has
  been removed. Inherit from ``shipping.base.Base`` for the class instead, and
  inherit from ``shipping.abstract_models.AbstractBase`` for model-based
  shipping methods.

* ``oscar.apps.shipping.Scales`` has been renamed and moved to
  ``oscar.apps.shipping.scales.Scale``, and is now overridable.

* The models of the shipping app now have abstract base classes, similar to
  the rest of Oscar.

* The legacy ``ShippingMethod`` name of the interface of the shipping app has
  been removed. Inherit from ``shipping.base.Base`` for the class instead, and
  inherit from ``shipping.abstract_models.AbstractBase`` for model-based
  shipping methods.

* Oscar's ``models.py`` files now define ``__all__``, and it's dynamically
  set to only expose unregistered models (which should be what you want) to
  the namespace. This is important to keep the namespace clean while doing
  star imports like ``from oscar.apps.catalogue.models import *``. You will
  have to check your imports to ensure you're not accidentally relying on
  e.g. a ``datetime`` import that's pulled in via the star import. Any such
  import errors will cause a loud failure and should be easy to spot and fix.

.. _rewritten: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/commit/d8b4dbfed17be90846ea4bc47b5f7b39ad944c24

Migrations
~~~~~~~~~~

* South is no longer a dependency. This means it won't get installed
  automatically when you install Oscar. If you are on Django 1.6 and want to
  use South, you will need to explicitly install it and add it to your
  requirements.

* Only South >= 1.0 is supported: South 1.0 is a backwards compatible release
  explicitly released to help with the upgrade path to Django 1.7. Please make
  sure you update accordingly if you intend to keep using South. Older versions
  of South will look in the wrong directories and will break with this Oscar
  release.

* Rename your South ``migrations`` directories. To avoid
  clashes between Django's and South's migrations, you should rename
  all your South migrations directories (including those of forked Oscar apps)
  to ``south_migrations``. South 1.0 will check those first before falling back
  to ``migrations``.

* If you're upgrading to Django 1.7, you
  will need to follow the `instructions to upgrade from South`_ for your own
  apps. For any forked Oscar apps, you will need to copy Oscar's initial
  migrations into your emptied ``migrations`` directory first, because Oscar's
  set of migrations depend on each other. You can then create migrations for
  your changes by calling ``./manage.py makemigrations``. Django should
  detect that the database layout already matches the state of migrations; so
  a call to ``migrate`` should fake the migrations.

.. _instructions to upgrade from South: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.7/topics/migrations/#upgrading-from-south

.. warning::

    The catalogue app has a data migration to determine the product structure.
    Please double-check it's outcome and make sure to do something similar
    if you have forked the catalogue app.

.. note::

    The migration numbers below refer to the numbers of the South migrations.
    Oscar 1.0 ships with a set of new initial migrations for Django's new
    native migrations framework. They include all the changes detailed below.

.. note::

    Be sure to read the detailed instructions for
    :doc:`handling migrations </topics/upgrading>`.

* Address:

    - ``0011`` - ``AbstractAddress.search_text`` turned into a ``TextField``.
    - ``0012`` - ``AbstractCountry``: Removed two unused indexes & turns numeric code into ``CharField``

* Catalogue:

    - ``0021`` - Add ``unique_together`` to ``ProductAttributeValue``,
      ``ProductRecommendation`` and ``ProductCategory``
    - ``0022`` - Remove ``Product.score`` field.
    - ``0023`` - Drop ``Product.related_products``.
    - ``0024`` - Change ``ProductAttributeValue.value_text`` to a ``TextField``
      and do entity attribute changes and model deletions.
    - ``0025`` & ``0026`` - Schema & data migration to determine and save Product structure.

* Offer:

    - ``0033`` - Use an ``AutoSlug`` field for ``Range`` models
    - ``0034`` - Add moved ``RangedProductFileUpload`` model.

* Order:

    - ``0029`` - Add ``unique_together`` to ``PaymentEventQuantity`` and ``ShippingEventQuantity``
    - ``0030`` - Set ``unique=True`` for ``Order.order_number``
    - ``0031`` - ``AbstractAddress.search_text`` turned into a ``TextField``.

* Partner:

    - ``0014`` - ``AbstractAddress.search_text`` turned into a ``TextField``.

* Promotions:

    - ``0006`` - Add ``unique_together`` to ``OrderedProduct``

* Ranges dashboard:

    - ``0003`` - Drop ``RangeProductFileUpload`` from ``ranges`` app. This is
                 a destructive change!

* Shipping:

    - ``0007`` - Change ``WeightBand.upper_limit`` from ``FloatField`` to ``DecimalField``
    - ``0008`` - Drop ``WeightBased.upper_charge`` field.

.. _deprecated_features_in_1.0:

Deprecated features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following features have been deprecated in this release:

* Many attributes concerning product structure. Please see the
  `product structure changes <product_structure_changes_in_1.0>`_ for details.

Removal of deprecated features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These methods have been removed:

* ``oscar.apps.catalogue.abstract_models.AbstractProduct.has_stockrecord``
* ``oscar.apps.catalogue.abstract_models.AbstractProduct.stockrecord``
* ``oscar.apps.catalogue.abstract_models.AbstractProduct.is_available_to_buy``
* ``oscar.apps.catalogue.abstract_models.AbstractProduct.is_purchase_permitted``
* ``oscar.apps.catalogue.views.get_product_base_queryset``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.is_available_to_buy``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.is_purchase_permitted``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.availability_code``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.availability``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.max_purchase_quantity``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.dispatch_date``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.lead_time``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.price_incl_tax``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.abstract_models.AbstractStockRecord.price_tax``
* ``oscar.apps.payment.abstract_models.AbstractBankcard.card_number``

These classes have been removed:

* ``oscar.apps.partner.prices.DelegateToStockRecord``
* ``oscar.apps.partner.availability.DelegateToStockRecord``
* ``oscar.apps.payment.utils.Bankcard``

Known issues
------------
* ``models.py`` dynamically sets ``__all__`` to control what models are
  importable through the star import. A bug in the ``models.py`` for the
  ``partner`` app means you'll have to explicitly import them. More info in
  `#1553`_.

  .. _#1553: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1553
