.. spelling::

    pytest

=======================
Oscar 1.1 release notes
=======================

:release: 2015-06-20

Welcome to Oscar 1.1, or the "Bootstrap 3" release. We also squashed
many bugs that were reported in the last seven months, and managed to shed
a lot of compatibility helpers when Django 1.6 support was removed.

Table of contents:

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


.. _compatibility_of_1.1:

Compatibility
-------------

Oscar 1.1 is compatible with Django 1.7 and 1.8 as well as Python 2.7,
3.3 and 3.4.  Support for Django 1.6, and hence South for migrations, has been
removed.

.. _new_in_1.1:

What's new in Oscar 1.1?
------------------------

* The frontend and backend templates have been updated to use Bootstrap 3
  instead of version 2 (`#1576`_). The frontend and backend templates are now
  also independent of each other.
* Category slug, name and URL handling has been refactored to make it easier to
  translate categories, and to be able to edit slugs independent of names.
* The icon and caption of `django-tables2` tables can be set directly on the `Table` object, if it
  derives from :class:`~oscar.apps.dashboard.tables.DashboardTable`. The caption can be localised
  in singular and plural. (`#1482`_)
* Oscar now ships with basic ElasticSearch support.
  ``OSCAR_PRODUCT_SEARCH_HANDLER`` has been introduced to more easily set the search backend.
* The offer models can now also be customised the same way as was already
  possible for the other apps.
* The test suite is now run with the glorious pytest.

.. _`#1576`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/1576
.. _`#1482`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/1482


.. _minor_changes_in_1.1:

Minor changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The `Order.date_placed` field can now be set explicitly rather than using the
  `auto_now_add` behaviour (`#1558`_).

- The settings ``OSCAR_BASKET_COOKIE_SECURE`` and ``OSCAR_RECENTLY_VIEWED_COOKIE_SECURE``
  are introduced to set the ``secure`` flag on the relevant cookies.

- Previously, all views handled in Oscar's Application class were decorated
  with the permissions_required decorator. That decorator would not do
  anything if used with an empty set of permissions. But it was raised as an
  issue, and now views not requiring permissions are not decorated at all.

- Properly redirect users to the checkout page after a guest user created an
  account.

- ``OSCAR_SEARCH_FACETS`` now accepts ``collections.OrderedDict``.

- Oscar now supports varying the tax rate per product.

- Product class options and attributes can now be edited in the dashboard.

- All ``ModelForm`` subclasses now specify the `fields` meta attribute instead of the `excludes` list.

.. _`#1558`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/1558


.. _incompatible_changes_in_1.1:

Backwards incompatible changes in 1.1
-------------------------------------

Categories refactor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Category model contained two denormalisations to improve performance: it
stored the name of the category and it's ancestors in ``full_name``, and the
``slug`` field did not just contain the category's slug, but also the ones of
its ancestors.

This came with several drawbacks: it was fiddly to move and update categories,
as one had to ensure to update parts of the entire category tree. It also
made it trickier to add model-level translation to categories.

A refactoring removed the denormalisations leading to much simpler logic,
and a light sprinkle of caching for the URLs hopefully leads to a performance
net positive. But unfortunately it did come with some changes:

* Category slug handling is changed. Historically, Oscar always updated the
  slug when the name changed. Now a slug is only created if no slug is given,
  and an existing slug is never overridden. This means that you can freely
  change the slugs, and a name change will not change the category's URL.
* The ``full_name`` field has been *removed* and been replaced by a
  ``full_name`` property. Accessing that property incurs one database query to
  fetch the ancestors.
* ``Category.get_absolute_url`` is now naively cached, as it's more costly to
  generate the URL than before. But as ``ProductCategoryView``, the view
  returned in ``get_absolute_url`` only considers the primary key and not the
  slug, even a stale cache should lead to the correct category page. But if
  you have altered that logic, please be sure to investigate.

Those changes unfortunately do mean a data migration to update the slugs
which *must* be run. Please see the section on migrations below. Please also
ensure that, if you load your categories via fixtures, you update them
accordingly: remove the ``full_name`` field and remove the ancestor's slugs
from the ``slug`` field.

Misc
~~~~

* The :class:`~oscar.apps.shipping.abstract_models.AbstractWeightBased` shipping
  method now allows zero-weight baskets to have a non-zero shipping cost
  (`#1565`_). This means that sites that rely on zero-weight baskets having no
  change will need to introduce a new weight band that covers this edge case.

* The methods :method:`~oscar.apps.offer.utils.Applicator.apply` and
  :method:`~oscar.apps.offer.utils.Applicatior.get_offers` changed their
  arguments to `(basket, user=None, request=None)`. (`#1677`_)

.. _`#1565`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/1565
.. _`#1677`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/pull/1677

Migrations
~~~~~~~~~~

Migrations will get picked up automatically for apps you haven't customised.
If you have customised any app, please consult the
:doc:`detailed instructions </topics/upgrading>` on how to handle migrations.

.. warning::
   This release contains a data migration for category slugs.  If you have
   forked it, it is critical you run a copy of that migration when upgrading.

.. warning::
   This release doesn't include any South migrations, as support for Django
   1.6 has been dropped.

Note, the catalogue app contains a data migration ``0003_data_migration_slugs``.
If you have a forked catalogue app, copy this migration into your project so it
can be applied (or create a data migration that applies the same transformation).

Dependency changes
------------------

* Oscar now requires `django-treebeard` 3.0.

.. _deprecated_features_in_1.1:

Deprecated features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following features have been deprecated in this release:

* For backwards compatibility, one can access the ``ProductCategoryView``
  without specifying a category PK in the URL. Oscar itself does not
  use this any more, and it will be removed with the next version of Oscar.

* ``ProductSearchHandler`` has been renamed to ``SolrProductSearchHandler``.
  The old name will be removed in the next version of Oscar.

Removal of deprecated features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

These methods have been removed:

* ``oscar.core.compat.atomic_compat``: Use ``django.db.transaction.atomic``
  instead.
* ``oscar.core.loading.import_string``: Use
  ``django.utils.module_loading.import_string`` instead.
* ``Product.variants``: Use ``Product.children``
* ``Product.is_top_level``: Use ``Product.is_standalone or self.is_parent``
* ``Product.is_group``: Use ``Product.is_parent``
* ``Product.is_variant``: Use ``Product.is_child``
* ``Product.min_variant_price_incl_tax``: Refactor or use the deprecated
  ``Product.min_child_price_incl_tax``.
* ``Product.min_variant_price_excl_tax``: Refactor or use the deprecated
  ``Product.min_child_price_excl_tax``.
* ``Strategy.fetch_for_group``: Use ``Strategy.fetch_for_parent``.
* ``Strategy.select_variant_stockrecords``: Use
  ``Strategy.select_children_stockrecords``.
* ``Strategy.group_pricing_policy``: Use ``Strategy.parent_pricing_policy``.
* ``Strategy.group_availability_policy``: Use
  ``Strategy.parent_availability_policy``.

These instances have been removed:

* ``oscar.app.shop``: Use ``oscar.app.application`` instead.
