=======================
Oscar 1.2 release notes
=======================

.. warning::

    Oscar 1.2 is still in development. This document is a work-in-progress.

:release: TBD

Welcome to Oscar 1.2.

Table of contents:

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


.. _compatibility_of_1.2:

Compatibility
-------------

Oscar 1.2 is compatible with Django 1.7 and 1.8 as well as Python 2.7,
3.3, 3.4 and 3.5.


.. _new_in_1.2:

What's new in Oscar 1.2?
------------------------
 - ``django-compressor`` has been removed as a dependency, and as a way
   of building ``less`` files for development. Removing or disabling it
   was commonly required as it didn't work well with deploying on PaaS
   providers, and many current projects understandably prefer to use
   Javascript build chains (``gulp``, ``grunt``, etc.) for all their
   statics.
   But ``django-compressor`` was hard to remove  on a per-project basis,
   so the decision was made to remove it altogether.

   For development, ``USE_LESS`` now enables the browser-based on-the-fly
   pre-processor. ``make css`` continues to run a locally installed
   LESS binary.

.. _minor_changes_in_1.2:

Minor changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 - Fix missing page_url field in the promotions form (`#1816`_)
 - The order of basket, order and wishlist lines in now guaranteed
   to be in the order of creation. Previously, this wasn't guaranteed,
   but still almost always the case.
 - `Partner` instances got a default ordering by name.
 - If a child product has no weight, we check if a parent's product weight
   is set before falling back to the default weight (`#1965`_).
 - `Address.active_address_fields` now uses the saner common name of a country
   instead of the official name (`#1964`_).
 - Custom benefits now don't enforce uniqueness on the ``proxy_class``
   field, making them more useful (`#685`_).
 - Move logic to create basket messages to it's own utility class
   `basket.utils.BasketMessageGenerator()`. (`#1930`_)
 - Fix a caching issue in `Product.get_absolute_url()` (`#1925`_)
 - Update the `recently_viewed_products` templatetag to accept a 
   `current_product` attribute. (`#1948`_)


.. _`#685`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/685
.. _`#1816`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1816
.. _`#1930`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1930
.. _`#1925`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1925
.. _`#1948`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1948


.. _incompatible_in_1.2:

Backwards incompatible changes in Oscar 1.2
-------------------------------------------

- The ``mainstyles`` template block was removed. It served as a wrapper
  for the ``styles`` content black and was needed to be extensible while
  still being able to compress CSS. As ``django-compressor`` has been
  removed, it's not needed any more. Just use ``styles`` instead if you
  happened to use it.

- The `keywords` block is removed from the main template (`#1799`)

- The US and Demo sites were both removed from the repository as they 
  were not up-to-date anymore. These might return in the future as 
  separate repositories.

- The `RecentReviewsManager`, `TopScoredReviewsManager` and 
  `TopVotedReviewsManager` managers are removed from the reviews app 
  since they were broken and unused.

 - A new unique index is added to `catalogue.AbstractAttributeOption` to make 
   sure that the `group`, `option` combination is unique (`#1935`)

.. _`#1935`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1935


Dependency changes
------------------

* The following packages are updated:
    - `django-treebeard >= 4.0` (Django 1.9 support)
    - `sorl.thumbnail >= 12.4a1` (Django 1.9 support)
* JQuery UI is no longer included in the dashboard (`#1792`_)

.. _`#1792`: https://github.com/django-oscar/django-oscar/issues/1792
